# Anathem
The universe is a web of causally connected worldlines (”narratives”) which branch off at every quantum decision - every wave-function collapse. Seems to have gone with the idea that there are “bundles” of worldlines which form a more macro worldline being followed by a specific narrative. Non-interesting quantum events (such as a particle within a gas doing x or y) yield branches that stay within this worldline bundle (world-bundle?). Major forks in the world bundles occur when quantum events have more significant causal consequences. 

Example: some event, at some point, differentiated two worldlines where Jad lived the launch or did not. This led to a significant deviation in worldlines. 

Another example: At some point, some worldline branched where there was a dinosaur skeleton in the parking ramp from the worldline where there is not a skeleton in the ramp. The thousanders somehow induced a mass jump from the worldline where there was a dinosaur skeleton to one where there wasn’t? But how would that explain the wood being there?

The mind is capable of straddling many worldlines in similar Hemn space? When decisions are made, it forks the worldline, potentially in multiple ways if the decision is not binary? 

The Hylaean flow: A model for the flow of theoretical information “downstream” - from pure theoretical worlds down to less pure worlds? Protism analogous to Platonic forms. Simple (analog?) protism posits the existence of two cosmi - the **Hylaean Theoric World** **(HTW)** and the **Arbran Causal Domain (ACD).** Theoric information flows from the HTW to the ACD. Simple protism limits to these two worlds. 

Complex protism posits a larger, (potentially infinite?) DAG representing flow from more Hylaean worlds to less Hylaean worlds. The *Daban Urnud* seems to be moving upwards the DAG somehow, breaking the ordering of the graph. Could the HTW be an asymptote of the “ideality” of the Hylaean flow? Impossibly perfect, but it’s existence defines the behavior of the respective function. No matter how far “up” you go, you only approach the ideality, you never reach it.

Do thousanders outside of the inviolates have the ability to straddle worldlines? At least their ability to manipulate their aging is due to their need to deal with harmful effects from dealing with nuclear waste. Could the worldline control ability be a symptom of this role of theirs?

Mathic system is an interesting commentary on the university system taken to it’s absolute extreme. Ideas regarding the role of theory, science, and mathematics in society. After the reformations, they became more and more theoretically focused, apparently their only means to test things being cosmology and astronomy research?

Mathic system structure: A monastic order split from the outside world, yielding themselves to purely monastic pursuit of theory. Built around clock towers, where each decade division (1, 10, 100, 1000 years) has their own “concent” (monastery). The gates to the concent only open every period of time given by their identification. 

The saecular world seems to be a commentary/prediction on our current focus on short term pleasure, addiction to smartphones (jeejahs), which has only gotten more and more dominant.

The mathic system is a rather radical simplicity in ownership and austerity, but with a definite twist surrounding the allowance of relationships (liaisons). The cord, bolt, and sphere (1d, 2d, 3d) are the only possessions the Avout have, but their newmatter nature allows for a bit of freedom in what they do and narrative freedom.

The mathic system defines a strong way of life for the avout, the strictness of which depends on the math. There is a strong culture of chanting and music, of cooperation (cooking), of the winding of the clock, etc. They don’t just try to live a simple life, they build their identity around it. They don’t interact with the outside world, they are only allowed to own certain things, etc. But there is great individual freedoms of pursuit of interests, pursuit of relationships, etc.